- [Instructor] So let's take a look at a couple
of the use cases for serverless technologies.
Autoscaling web apps is definitely a very niche proposal
within serverless for many people,
but it is a use case that can be leveraged.
Autoscaling is the primary benefit of this.
But building a web application that responds
to a traditional HTTP request,
you get autoscaling essentially for free
with the serverless footprint on many cloud providers.
Therefore, as your request volume increases,
serverless can really start to shine
as you don't have to build your app per say,
to be fault tolerant and resilient to this scaling need
because serverless takes care of much of that for you.
Another benefit here is that there's minimal initial setup
to get this scaling.
You simply write your web application
and then as it becomes more and more popular,
serverless will handle the scaling needs
of your application.
Now I do want to point out once again,
that you need to be careful
as the sustained volume increases.
If you find that your application becomes so popular
that it's used constantly throughout the day
at a high volume, you may actually start to get benefits
from moving away from serverless
into a more traditional VM environment.
Now, event streaming is a use case that I most often use
for serverless in a cloud native world.
Much of event streaming is based on asynchronous actions.
And we've already talked about
how serverless can really shine in asynchronous actions.
Events through your streaming model can trigger
these functions to operate
and manipulate data as needed.
As always with serverless is you get built in scalability
because of the way that the framework operates.
Then this can be very useful
in observability processing and transformation of that data.
In fact, a large majority of the use cases
that I've used serverless technologies for,
wrap around the use of observability,
specifically around security patterns
within an application space.
Now, be careful with this use case
as sprawl and dependent triggers starts to increase,
it can make your serverless model that much more complex.
Now file manipulation is another one
of those use cases that just naturally works.
Anytime you upload or manipulate files, videos, or images,
those can be triggers in many cloud providers naturally
for serverless functions.
Many times these occur on save or delete actions,
but they can also occur with moves
because those are just saves and deletes in many patterns.
Again, we're dealing with asynchronous processing.
As we save the file, this trigger occurs after that point,
therefore it becomes an asynchronous action.
You can also use this in many use cases
where you're pushing data to live data stores,
based on some action.
Again, it's giving you this opportunity
to do something after the fact
and push data or manipulate data as you need it.
And once again, be careful here when using this use case,
intense processing needs can start
to overrun the serverless benefits.
And of course there's debugging, which often has to happen
with these large complex tasks that tend to get associated
with file manipulation,
especially around videos and imaging.
Now, another one of the primary use cases
around connectors within a cloud native environment.
Cloud providers often provide connectors
to serverless functions.
These give you remote system operations
not just within your cloud provider,
but truly with SaaS models
where you need to execute some action based
on a remote system trigger.
These third party operations
in addition to leveraging the benefits
of the cloud provider, can give you an asynchronous gate
but one that's air-gapped away from your primary runtime
and serverless tends to fit really well in this model.
These disjointed applications
don't really need live connectivity,
but need a way to communicate with each other
over some sort of a triggered mechanism.
And I said this were triggered a lot
because a lot of times that's how we think
of serverless functions.
Some trigger execute some function,
and it continues down this path.
And we see this a lot with third-party operations
where we're interacting with a SaaS provider
and either they're sending us event
or we're sending them an event.
And at some point these serverless functions tend
to fit the bill.
These SaaS models are all over the place.
Things like Salesforce and things like Stripe and Split
that are very prevalent within the ecosystem,
allow you to subscribe
and also push triggers to their systems.
Now, one thing to be careful in something
that's gotten me in the past is that some
of these third-party products especially in the SaaS space,
can be very noisy and push lots of events
because they tend to err on the side of caution,
send you too much data and you deal with what you want.
In doing so you can actually get a lot of processing
that's really nothing more than waste.
So you do want to be careful on how much you allow them
to impact your costs through these remote connectors.